toki! mi jan Aketon
# Why *toki pona*?
  It may seem strange to begin your journey in learning natural living languages by learning a constructed language (con-lang for short), but there are some very good reasons to do so. In this introduction, I will explain what you should gain from this brief course in *toki pona* and how to apply it to learning your next language. If you spend a few minutes a day on this language, you can realistically reach conversational fluency in a week or two. Some more seasoned language learners have learned all of *toki pona* within a day or over a weekend. Doing this will give you the resources you need to understand how your specific mind processes language, and give you a taste of the experiance of realizing your level of fluency. This is the moment people describe when they first respond without thinking to a native speaker and are understood. It's quite the rush, even in as simple a language as this one. I'll go into more detail on these points below, but if your convinced, skip to the end to take note of how you can gain the most out of this short detour.
## Learning How to Learn
  Many of us do not believe that we can learn another language. Some of us failed out of our public school language courses. Others took on years of formal training in a language, only to realize that nothing they learned made using the language naturally in the real world possible. Still others gained some grasp of the language, only to forget everything a few months later. The way we communicate is inherently at least as complicated as the things we try to communicate. Aquiring a language is like aquiring a skill, but not identical, and the ways that your brain changes to work with the new vocabulary, grammar, and culture are often unituitive. That said, toki pona is impossibly easy. If you're struggling to learn this language, that's your proof: it's not you, its the method you're using. Once you find what works with toki pona, you'll know how your brain does language, and you can do what works instead of what doesn't. This will save you hours, minutes, days, or even years of frustration and wasted time.
## The Rush of Success
  Language learning is a daunting process. It can be gruelling to slog through weeks of being unable to speak as well as a native toddler. This period in *toki pona*, as with all difficult things done *pona*[^1], is much simpler and usually shorter than it is in other languages. There are fewer letters, fewer rules exceptions, and fewer barriers to fluency than in just about any other language. Because of this, you'll experiance that joy one feels when they finally have a conversation in a new language without translating much sooner, and you'll see why those who learn other languages get so passionate about them, and you'll get that experiance much sooner. This experiance is a small fraction of it's analog in the language you actually want to learn, but if you've never felt it before, it may help to get an idea of what it's like.
## Moving Forward
  As you learn this language, take notes on the things you try, and keep track of how confident you feel in *toki pona*. I'll provide a study-tips.md file to give you some ideas, but whatever you do that works is worth remembering for your next language. I'll also provide links there to the websites where you can get involved in the global toki pona community. My reccommendation is that you prioritize two questions to try to answer as you learn toki pona:
- Do I struggle with Grammar or Vocabulary more?
- For whichever of the above is more difficult, what method worked the best to overcome my difficulties with it?

Thank you for your interest in my new approach to Language Learning. *o sina open pona!*[^2]
[^1]: *pona*: content word in *toki pona* for "good, simple, liked"
[^2]: *o sina open pona!*:"Welcome, have a good start!"
